README.md, before:

# JFXSortDemo

This is a demo of basic sorting algorithms displayed using the JavaFX scene graph.

![Screenshot of merge sort](https://github.com/PerryHighCS/JFXSortDemo/blob/master/images/SortDemo.png?raw=true)

For the demo, data is represented by SortableBars implementing the Comparable interface so that individual bars can be compared. This allows simple integration into standard sorting algorithms, from Bubble Sort to Quick sort.

The bars being sorted are stored in a special instrumented wrapper class, DemoArray. This class allows getting and setting individual elements, and has built in support for swapping two elements in the array and comparing elements at two indices or an element at a given index with an object of the same type. All such accesses are counted with the counts accessible by accessor methods or via properties.

## Adding Sorting Algorithms
Sorting algorithms can be added to the package run.mycode.sortdemo.sort . Sorting algorithms need to implement the interface SteppableSorter in order to be run by the demo. Classes added to the package that implement this interface will be automatically added to the Sorting Method ChoiceBox when the program starts. The algorithms provided can be used as an example of converting common algorithms into steppable versions. Ideally for this project, one "step" of an algorithm corresponds to one access to the data being sorted, but may also represent a complicated step in the algorithm, such as preparing to sort or changing state in the algorithm. See MergeSorter, HeapSorter, and QuickSorter for examples of how recursive algorithms can be made steppable. I intend to create a demo of how Java's implementation of monitors can be used to simplify conversion of algorithms to a steppable form, but if someone beats me to it, I won't feel too bad.

Commit message:

DemoArray is now JavaFX thread safe, bubblesort uses semaphore for steps

README.md, after:

# JFXSortDemo

This is a demo of basic sorting algorithms displayed using the JavaFX scene
graph.

![Screenshot of merge sort](https://github.com/PerryHighCS/JFXSortDemo/blob/master/images/SortDemo.png?raw=true)

For the demo, data is represented by SortableBars implementing the Comparable 
interface so that individual bars can be compared. This allows simple 
integration into standard sorting algorithms, from Bubble Sort to Quick sort.

The bars being sorted are stored in a special instrumented wrapper class, 
DemoArray. This class allows getting and setting individual elements, and has 
built in support for swapping two elements in the array and comparing elements 
at two indices or an element at a given index with an object of the same type. 
All such accesses are counted with the counts accessible by accessor methods or 
via properties.

## Adding Sorting Algorithms
Sorting algorithms can be added to the package run.mycode.sortdemo.sort . 
Sorting algorithms need to implement the interface SteppableSorter in order to 
be run by the demo. Classes added to the package that implement this interface 
will be automatically added to the Sorting Method ChoiceBox when the program 
starts. The algorithms provided can be used as an example of converting common 
algorithms into steppable versions. Ideally for this project, one "step" of an 
algorithm corresponds to one access to the data being sorted, but may also 
represent a complicated step in the algorithm, such as preparing to sort or 
changing state in the algorithm. See MergeSorter, HeapSorter, and 
QuickSorter for examples of how recursive algorithms can be made steppable. 
BubbleSort and MergeSorter use a semaphore to more easily adapt a sorting 
algorithm to being stepped.
